# Announcing the Digital Scholarship Incubator at UNL
Supported by research and innovation funding from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln Libraries, the Center for Digital Research in the Humanities at UNL announces the creation of the Digital Scholarship Incubator. The Incubator provides research consultations; project coaching and support; access to resources, including hardware, software, people, and materials; work space; project and professional development funding; and professionalizing opportunities. Incubator participants, who must be graduate students enrolled in a humanities degree program at UNL, will be chosen by competitive application.

The Digital Scholarship Incubator is now accepting applications for
its first cohort of student fellows. Incubator fellowships will run
from March 1, 2014–December 31, 2014. During the fellowship period, students commit to developing a specific contribution to humanities scholarship that depends on digital methodologies for research and/or publication. Students might use the Incubator to kickstart a new research project or to complete an ongoing project (or stage of an ongoing project). Incubator fellows should plan to work in the Incubator space located in Love Library for a minimum of 3-5 hours per week during the academic year. Invested in their own scholarship, fellows will also support the research of other Incubator fellows through thoughtful dialogue, critical engagement, and knowledge exchange. In addition, fellows commit to presenting their work to a public audience and to participating in training opportunities.

This year is a pilot year for the Digital Scholarship Incubator. Not only will fellows for 2014 help shape the developing model of the Incubator, fellows' projects will be important for making the case for future support.
To apply, submit a letter of application and cv to Liz Lorang (llorang2@unl.edu) by noon Monday, February 17, 2014. Your letter of application should include a statement of your work in digital humanities; a description of the research you plan to undertake as an Incubator fellow, including projected outcomes from the fellowship period; a description of how this digital research/scholarship fits
within your larger program of study and supports your professional goals; and a statement of your research/scholarship needs as you currently understand them.
Prospective applicants are encouraged to contact Liz Lorang (llorang2@unl.edu) with any questions.
