# Digital Scholarship Incubator Call for Applications 2015
The University Libraries and the Center for Digital Research in the Humanities at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln are pleased to announce a second year of support for the Digital Scholarship Incubator (DSI), which promotes student-led digital research and scholarship at UNL. The Incubator provides research consultations; project coaching and support; access to resources, including hardware, software, people, and materials; work space; project and professional development funding; and professionalizing opportunities. In its second year, the DSI will run from May 18-August 7, 2015, as an intensive summer fellowship designed to accelerate students' research and scholarship.

The Digital Scholarship Incubator is now accepting applications for its cohort of 2015 Student Fellows. During the fellowship period, students commit to developing a contribution to humanities scholarship that depends on digital methodologies for research and/or publication. Students might use the Incubator to kickstart a new research project or to advance an ongoing project. While concentrating on their own scholarship, DSI Fellows also support the research of other Incubator fellows through thoughtful dialogue, critical engagement, and knowledge exchange. Fellows also present their work to a public audience and participate in training opportunities. We anticipate awarding three DSI Fellowships for 2015.

DSI Fellows will receive a stipend of $3,600 to support focus on research during the summer fellowship. In addition, Fellows will be eligible to apply for support to attend conferences or participate in training opportunities. Fellows will have access to hardware and software in the Incubator space, which is located in the Center for Digital Research in the Humanities. DSI Fellows are required to spend 15 hours per week in the Incubator space during the twelve-week fellowship period. Fellows will coordinate schedules with one another and with the Incubator director, in order to make the most of the co-working environment.

Applicants must be currently enrolled graduate students at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Students may be enrolled in a humanities graduate degree program (master's or doctoral), the Graduate Certificate Program in Digital Humanities, or both. To apply, submit an application package with the following components to Elizabeth Lorang (llorang2@unl.edu):

1. A letter of application, including a statement of your work in digital humanities; a description of the research you plan to undertake as a DSI Fellow, including projected outcomes from the fellowship period; a description of how this digital research/scholarship fits within your larger program of study and supports your professional goals; a statement of your research/scholarship needs as you currently understand them; and a brief plan for communicating about your work to academic and public audiences.
2. A two-page cv.
3. A letter of support from a faculty member at UNL, who agrees to serve as a mentor for you during the fellowship period. The letter of support should both speak to the scholarly merits of your project and indicate the faculty member's willingness to advise you over the fellowship period. The faculty mentor may be an expert in your main disciplinary area and/or someone who will provide technical guidance. If you need assistance identifying a faculty mentor, contact Elizabeth Lorang as soon as possible.
Applications are due via email to llorang2@unl.edu by 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, February 26. DSI Fellows will be selected by a committee comprised of digital humanities faculty and staff at UNL.
For more on the Digital Scholarship Incubator, including 2014 Fellows' projects, see http://cdrh.unl.edu/digital-scholarship-incubator. Contact Elizabeth Lorang (llorang2@unl.edu) with any questions.
