# Digital Scholarship Incubator Call for Applications 2016

The University Libraries is pleased to announce the third year of the Digital Scholarship Incubator (DSI), which promotes student-led digital research and scholarship at UNL. The 2016 DSI will run from May 16–August 5 as an intensive summer fellowship designed to accelerate graduate students' research and scholarship.

The Digital Scholarship Incubator is now accepting applications for its cohort of 2016 Student Fellows. For the first time, the Incubator is open to students pursuing scholarship in the human and social sciences, in addition to the humanities.

During the fellowship period, students commit to developing a contribution to humanities, social science, or human science scholarship that depends on digital methodologies for research and/or publication. Students might use the Incubator to kickstart a new research project or to advance an ongoing project. While concentrating on their own scholarship, DSI Fellows also support the research of other Incubator Fellows through thoughtful dialogue, critical engagement, and knowledge exchange. Fellows also present their work to a public audience and participate in training opportunities. We anticipate awarding up to four DSI Fellowships for 2016; at least two of the fellowships will be awarded to students in the humanities.

DSI Fellows will receive a stipend of $3,600 to support focus on research during the summer fellowship. In addition, Fellows will be eligible to apply for support to attend conferences or participate in training opportunities. Fellows will have access to hardware and software in the Incubator space, which is located in the Center for Digital Research in the Humanities in Love Library. DSI Fellows are required to spend 15 hours per week in the Incubator space during the twelve-week fellowship period. Fellows will coordinate schedules with one another and with the Incubator director, in order to make the most of the co-working environment.

Applicants must be currently enrolled graduate students (master's or doctoral) at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. To apply, submit an application package with the following components to the DSI's director, Elizabeth Lorang (liz.lorang@unl.edu):

1. A letter of application, including a statement of your work in digital scholarship; a description of the research you plan to undertake as a DSI Fellow, including projected outcomes from the fellowship period; a description of how this digital scholarship fits within your larger program of study and supports your professional goals; a statement of your research needs as you currently understand them; a brief plan for communicating about your work to academic and public audiences; a statement about your availability during the fellowship period (May 16–August 5), including anticipated time away from UNL over the fellowship period. The letter of application should be no more than two pages.
2. A two-page cv.
3. A letter of support from a faculty member at UNL who agrees to serve as a mentor for you during the fellowship period. The letter of support should both speak to the merits of your project and indicate the faculty member's willingness to advise you over the summer fellowship period. The faculty mentor may be an expert in your main disciplinary area and/or someone who will provide technical guidance. If you need assistance identifying a faculty mentor, contact Elizabeth Lorang as soon as possible.
Applications are due via email to liz.lorang@unl.edu by 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, March 24. DSI Fellows will be selected by a committee comprised of faculty and staff at UNL. Decisions will be announced as soon as possible after that date.
For more on the Digital Scholarship Incubator, including previous Fellows' projects, see http://cdrh.unl.edu/digital-scholarship-incubator. Contact Elizabeth Lorang (liz.lorang@unl.edu) with any questions.
